# EmailInboxApp
This is a Mailbox Application that I developed using ReactJs in the frontend, NodeJs with ExpressJs at backend, and SQLite for the database. SQLite is used in this project as it is serverless and users don't have to create a database server to run the application. RESTAPIs are used in the backend and axios is used in the frontend to send API requests and to get responses. The application uses a predefined user in the seeder and this user has 3 predefined messages in the database. When the application is run every time, the database tables are removed and recreated, and seeder seeds to the database automatically. When the application starts, the user will be redirected to the Home page, and /unreadmessages API is posted which shows greetings to the user with the username, and will be shown his total number of messages and how many of them is unread. Email and password are sent through API when the home page starts to authenticate the user with jwt token, and this token is stored in localstorage to be used on other pages also. If the user clicks view messages, the user will be redirected to the Inbox page which shows all messages of authenticated user and /messages API is requested while the page is loading. Subject, The Content of the message is shown to the user and if the message isRead state is false, the message's icon is closed envelope, if true, opened envelope. When the user clicks the view message button for any specific message, /messages/id API is requested and the user will be redirected to the Message page. Here, the user views the details of the selected message, and /message/id/changeIsRead API is requested to change the isRead state of the message to true as the user views the message. Users can go to the inbox page from this page by clicking the back arrow. 

**What to do after cloning the project? **
In the root directory of the project, **** npm install **** should be run through the terminal to install dependencies of the project.

After installation is completed, **** npm run start-dev **** command will start both backend server and frontend and also seed the data to the database.
